Well, the python was basic and easy, but a new thing I was introduced to was the sockets implementation in Python:

For loops are:
```
for i in range(x,y):
  print(i)
```
Will print all the number between x and y, including x, not including y.

You can reverse a string by doing `stringVariable[::-1]`. This is the 'Extended Slices' syntax, where the argument before the first semicolon would be what index to start at, the second one being, what to end at, and the third being the 'step', it loops through and retrieves the values that fit the criteria, but if the step is -1, it goes in the negative direction and gets every value in the opposite order, therefore it can be used to reverse lists and strings.

## XOR with strings
The following function does it:
```
def sxor(s1,s2):    
    return ''.join(chr(ord(a) ^ ord(b)) for a,b in zip(s1,s2))
```
Just takes 2 strings and responds with the XOR of them.
The `zip(...)` function takes two things, such as strings or lists, of potentially varying lengths, and creates a one to one 
pair of the respective items. We have used it with 2 strings, so it creates a list of character pairs, which are then looped through using that for loop:
```
for a,b in zip(s1,s2): #this loops through the a<->b pairs from the function
```
And once these values have been retrieved, they are used in the bit before:
```
chr(ord(a) ^ ord(b))
```
Where `ord(a) ^ ord(b)` does the XOR of the 2 characters, by first turning them into integers (using the `ord(...)` function). The `chr(...)` function encompassing the entire expression then turns the new integer, resultant from the XOR into a character (which is probably not a letter, and may not be even able to be displayed in the terminal).

Then, as the values generated inside the `''.join(...)` brackets make an array, the `''.join(...)` function joins them and delimits all of these values by the specified character, which is not provided, so they are just joined like that, and then this is returned in the function.

## Emails using SMTP
Really simple, firstly do `import smtplib`.
Then do:
```
server = smtplib.smtp('URL', PORT_NUMBER)
```
Which is pretty self explanatory, and then do:
```
msg = "sample message"
recipientEmail = "test@test.com"
senderEmail = "sender@sender.com"

server.sendmail(senderEmail, recipientEmail, msg)
```
And that sends an email, simple.

## Files
This `myfile = open("/example/test.txt", "w")` will open a file in write mode, from that path.
`myfile.write("Test.\n")` will write that to the file, with a new line character at the end.
`myfile.close()` will close the file.

To put the contents of the file into a single variables, do: `fileContents = myfile.read()`, then you can just literally do `print(fileContents)` to print the contents.

The other ways to open the file are:
```
w - write only, overwrites file if it exists
r - read only
r+ - read and write
w+ - read and write, but if it exists, it will overwrite it
a - allows you to append to the end of the file
a+ - allows you to append to the end of the file and read the file
```

You can read a file line by line:
```
for line in myfile:
  print(line)
```
This specifically will read and then print it, line by line.

A better way to do file handling is:
```
with open("myfile.txt", "r") as myfile:
  #something
```
Which will mean that you don't need to close it yourself basically, so no chance of you accidentally leaving it open.

To loop through every file in a folder and all of its subdirectories:
```
import os #for the walk() and the sep attribute

for dir, rootdir, files in os.walk("/directory/somewhere"):
  for file in files:
    filepath = dir + os.sep + file
    
    print(filepath) #will print the file path for evey found file
```
`os.walk("dir")` will loop through every folder and subfolder and look over every file, so would return up to 3 values, which we have used in the `for` loop, `dirs`, `subdir`, `files`.

Basically, it goes through every folder and sets that as the root folder, while looking for more, so the first value (`dir`) would be location of the directory the file is in, whereas `dir` would be what specific root directory that folder belongs to.

And so doing `dir + os.sep + file` would give the full location of the file and the file itself.
`os.sep` is the character used by the operating system to separate pathname components. This is '/' for POSIX and '\' for Windows.

The first few bytes of a file will tell you what file type it is, so you can do `file.read(5)` to get the first 5 bytes of the file and use a regex pattern on it or something (if you're looping through a lot maybe) to check if it is a specific file type, or simply print it and it will say the file type.
These first few bytes at the beginning are known as `magic bytes`.

To loop through all the files in a directory and get there first few bytes, you can do:
```
import os

for filename in os.listdir("/tmp"):
  x = open("/tmp/"+filename, "r")
  file_head = x.read(5) #first 5 bytes
  
  print(file_head)
```

#### Zip Files
You need to first do the following: `from zipfile import ZipFile`, or simply: `import zipfile`.

Then you can have them opened, using the following:
```
with ZipFile('/tmp/alien-zip-2092.zip') as x:
```

Then to extract everything from the zip file, you can do: `zipFileYouMade.extractall("directory to extract to", pwd = "password")`. The final parameter (password), is optional.
To try many different passwords, to try and crack the password, for example, you can use:
```
try:
  z.extractall("/directory", pwd=generatedPasswordValue)
except:
  pass #or something else to catch an exception
```
Basically just a normal try/catch block with slightly different syntax.

## Sockets

First you need to do `import socket` to import a library to use.

Then you construct either a client or server socket, let's start with client.
`client = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)`
AF_INET means you're connecting to an IPv4 IP address, and SOCK_STREAM means you're connecting to a TCP connection rather than UDP.
SOCK_DGRAM is UDP, in which you send one message, get a reply, and the connection terminates.

You then connect to the server:
```
client.connect(("IP", PORT_NUMBER)) #make sure it's that double bracket syntax
```
You replace IP and PORT_NUMBER with an IP address and a 4 digit port number obviously.
 and stuff
To receive data you do:
`data = client.recv(1024)`
Receives 1024 bytes, the maximum amount that can be received.
And then you can just print it, it'll probably be a string or whatever other response from the server.

Then to make a server it's pretty simple as well:
```
server = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
server.bind(("IP", PORT_NUMBER)) #make sure it's that double bracket syntax
server.listen(NUMBER)
```
The 2nd line binds to the specified IP and port number, and the next line is the maximum amount of users it listens to.

Then you need to setup an infinite loop so that it continuously listens for incoming connections:
```
while True:
  connection, address = server.accept() #if the server gets a new connection, save it, and save the connection and its address in those variables
  
  data = connection.recv(1024) #receive 1024 bytes
  
  if len(data) > 0:
    print(data) #prints the data if it is longer than 0
```

Then you can simply do `connection.close()` to close the connection, and `server.close()` to close the server socket.

By the way, Python sockets are by default, in blocking mode, so will wait for a response from, say, recv, before moving on.

## HTTP
To use HTTP requests, you must first do this: `import urllib2`, and then to open a url: `response = urllib2.urlopen("URL:PORT/address etc")`, which is pretty self explanatory.

And then to simply read what there is: `html = response.read()`, and then you can print the `html` variable.

Also you must specify `http` or `https` before the url.

You can also do get requests, and send your own headers, like this:
```
request = urllib2.Request("URL:PORT/address etc", headers={"x-api-key" : "5000"})
data = urllib2.urlopen(request).read()
print(data)
```
This will simply print the response, and is nothing special, as is the `x-api-key` bit, it is just one of the headers you could send.

A better way to deal with all the headers and the data, especially if you're posting data is this:
```
import urllib #you need to import this one as well, to encode data
import urllib2 #as well as this to send it

url = "URL:PORT/address etc"

values = {"username":"test", "password":"test"} #the key value pairs are whatever you want posted
data = urllib.urlencode(values) #formats it to be ready for 'posting'

req = urllib2.Request(url) #the actual request
req.add_header("x-api-key", "somekey") #this will add the 'x-api-key' header with the value 'somekey'
req.add_data(data) #adds the post data

try:
  response = urllib2.urlopen(req) #tries to send the request and store the response in the variable 'response'
except:
  print("It did not work.") #prints this if the request doesn't succeed
```
The above script adds the headers via add_header("key","value") rather than having it all in one function, so the code is much cleaner and easier to maintain, and so I'd say you're better off using this.

Similar to the entire `urllib2.Request(...)` stuff is the `urllib2.build_opener()`, which can be used to send cookies:
```
import urllib2

opener = urllib2.build_opener()
opener.addheaders.append(('Cookie', 'cookieName=cookieValue'))
response = opener.open("URL:PORT/address etc")
```
This will send the cookie `cookieName`, with the value `cookieValue`, to the server.
You can then just do a simple `print(response.read())`, to output whatever the response is.

## ASCII
`chr(number)` will give you the ASCII character represented by that number and `ord(character)` will give you the number representing the character.

And `str(number)` will make a number into a string for string operations, like printing it with other strings using `+`

## Regex
Firstly `import re` to use regex.
Then you can make a pattern variable, and use it like this:
`data = re.findall(patternVariable, textToLookThrough)`. Then do `print(data[0])` to print the first match.

By the way, the `re.findall(x,y)` returns true if something is found, false otherwise, so can be used directly in if/else statements and loops.

And then you can actually begin to use regex patterns, for example:
`pattern: (.*)` is a pattern which, when applied, will look for anything with the phrase `pattern: ` in it, and then the inside of brackets acts as regex, with the `.` meaning any character, and the `*` meaning any number of times, so in essence, it will print out anything after the phrase `pattern: ` (including the space). To make sure that the `(...)` aren't processed as regex, you can 'escape' them by use of backslashes.
This means it will just print out whatever it matches, rather than anything after or whatever.

As a summary for what you can do inside the brackets:
```
\d is any digit
\D is any non-digit character
. is any character
\. is a period/full stop
[abc] is only the letters a, b, or c
[^abc] is not a, b, or c
[0-9] is any number 0 to 9
\w is any alphanumeric character (letters or numbers)
\W is any non-alphanumeric character (not letters or numbers)
{m} is how many repetitions, i.e replace m with the repetitions
{m,n} is the range of repetitions, so from m to n repetitions
* is zero or more repetitions
+ is one or more repetitions
? is an optional character
\s is any whitespace
\S is any non-whitespace character
^...$ is the starting and ending pair of characters, put a sentence in between it to look for that sentence, ^ is the beginning of the line, $ is the end
(...) is the capture group thing, which allows you to capture specifically whatever is in those brackets, and so allows you to make more complex regex queries
(a(bc)) is the capture sub-group, which allows you to capture 2 different things at once, say from `Jan 1975` it allows you to capture `Jan 1975` in the `a` part of the expression and `1975` in the `bc` part of the expression
(.*) is the capture all query
(abc|def) captures `abc` or `def`, if both are present, captures both
```
